A countable noun has a plural form such as books, girls, boys, toys, etc. For example we say a book but six books or many books or some books or a few books. A non-countable noun has no plural form.
To illustrate the use of the words “this” and “these”, consider the following sentences. This book is very interesting. These books belong to the public library.
This glass is broken. These glasses need to be washed.
We bought this car about three years ago. These cars will need to be serviced.
I would like to buy this mobile phone. None of these mobile phones have the functions I am looking for.
This bed has been untidily made. These beds are badly made.
This points to something nearby, while that points to something “over there.”
This restaurant is better than that down the road.
This shop has better clothes than that shop next door.
These shoes are more comfortable than those under the bed.
 I prefer these pink candles to those green ones.
This school is better than that chosen by your parents.
This food is better than that cooked by my mother.
These flowers look fresher than those in the vase.
These young singers are better than those of the church choir.
This desk is hers while that desk is mine.
Those trees are elms but these are oaks.
This and these can be used as pronouns as well. For instance, This is mine. That over there is yours.
 These are old shoes. Those there are newer.
This is the result of your stupidity. These are the sins of our forefathers.
 In conclusion remember that this is used with singular nouns and these is used with plural nouns.
This and these refer to something near you, while that and those refer to something farther away.
Human Capital Management has an ambiguous meaning but many associations, while Human Resource Management Systems has a definite meaning.
Human Capital Management is more of an approach and a strategy compared to Human Resource Management Systems, which is the specific tool to Human Capital Management. 
Human Capital Management can refer to the approach as well as the tool (which is also a computer program like HRMS), while Human Resource Management Systems only refers to the tool being used.
Human Capital Management is bigger and more involved in all aspects of Human Resource compared to Human Resource Management Systems.
Human Resource Management Systems is more related to the computer side of Human Resources. Human Capital Management is more related to “how to do things.”
Blood clot: Blood clots are thick and sticky clumps of dried blood. Miscarriage: Miscarriage is a disturbed pregnancy that ends before the fetus is able to survive outside the uterus.
Blood clot: Almost every woman has noticed blood clots during her menstruation. Miscarriage: Miscarriage occurs in 10-20% of the women who know they are pregnant.
Blood clot: The most common reasons for the appearance of clots during menstruation are sedentary lifestyle, cervix disorders, disturbance of the hormonal balance, presence of an intrauterine device, polyps in the uterus, uterine fibroids, low hemoglobin, ectopic pregnancy, vitamin surplus in the body, etc. Miscarriage: The most common reasons for a miscarriage are genetic and chromosomal embryonic abnormalities, diseases of the mother, intake of toxic substances, alcohol consumption, smoking, structural features of the uterus or the cervix, etc.
Blood clot: Blood clots are uniform red blood clumps. An ultrasound scan shows them as black areas. Miscarriage: During miscarriage grayish tissue parts are discharged, together with blood clots. An ultrasound scan shows the products of conception as white areas. 
Sole proprietorships have one owner while a LLC has one or more owners that may consist of corporations, foreign businesses, and even partnerships.
For a sole proprietorship to commence, the setting up process does not entail much cost, other than the fees for obtaining any required permits and licenses. An LLC, on the other hand, requires a lot of capital to start. Registration with the state is also required which may involve payment of initial registration or filing fees.
In a sole proprietorship, the owner is responsible for all personal and business taxes whereby the income of the business is considered the owner’s personal income for tax purposes. In an LLC, business income passes through to partners and is taxed at the individual level only.
For a sole proprietorship, the owner is fully and personally liable for all financial and legal transactions carried out in the business. However, for an LLC, owners are fully protected from liability that may be incurred by the business.
 A sole proprietor has full control of the business and is the only decision maker. In an LLC, all members have a right to take part in the decision making in the business.
A sole proprietorship may cease to exist when the owner is incapable of running the business and also in the event of death. An LLC, on the other hand, may exist regardless of who the manager or members of the company are.
Sole proprietorships mostly require simple licenses and permits. LLCs on the other hand, are governed by certain state laws, which may require an operating agreement. This often results in additional paperwork and records, which must be filed in a timely manner.
A sole proprietor is the sole decision-maker in the business, hence fast decision making. On the contrary, an LLC involves complex decision making as every member is involved in the process. 
