The key difference between fusion and vaporization is that fusion is the conversion of a solid into a liquid, whereas vaporization is the conversion of a liquid into its vapor.
The term fusion has different definitions in different fields, but in physical chemistry, we use it to describe the process of melting. That is; fusion is the conversion of a solid phase into its liquid phase. On the other hand, conversion of a liquid into its solid is known as freezing or solidification. If the liquid phase of a substance converts into the gaseous phase, then we call it vaporization.
Fusion is another term for the process of melting. Vaporization is the process of formation of vapor from a liquid, which can happen in one of the two ways: evaporation and boiling.
 The key difference between fusion and vaporization is that fusion is the conversion of a solid into a liquid, whereas vaporization is the conversion of a liquid into its vapor.
When considering the change in enthalpy, we call the change in enthalpy during the fusion process as the heat of fusion while the change in enthalpy during vaporization is the heat of vaporization.
The key difference between fusion and vaporization is that fusion is the conversion of a solid into a liquid, whereas vaporization is the conversion of a liquid into its vapor.
The key difference between distillation and condensation is that the distillation is a separation technique whereas the condensation is a process of changing the phase of matter.
Distillation is a common technique in industries that we can use to separate components in a liquid mixture. The technique includes selective boiling followed by condensation. On the other hand, condensation is the process of changing the phase of matter from gas phase to liquid phase.
Distillation is a technique that we can use to separate components in a liquid mixture via selective boiling and condensation while condensation is the process of changing the gas phase into liquid phase.
Therefore, the key difference between distillation and condensation is that distillation is a separation technique whereas condensation is a process of changing the phase of matter.
A further difference between distillation and condensation is that the distillation uses the differences in boiling points of components in the liquid mixture while the condensation occurs due to cooling or compression of a vapour.
Moreover, there is a difference between distillation and condensation based on applications too. That is; the applications of distillation include the production of distilled beverages, desalination, separation of crude oil into components, etc. Whereas, the applications of condensation include using it as a component of distillation, to generate water in large quantities, water desalination, air conditioning, etc.
Distillation is very important in different industries. Mainly, it is an important process in crude oil refining. On the other hand, condensation is also an important process, but we use it mainly regarding the condensation of water vapour.
However, condensation is an essential component in distillation too. In summary, the key difference between distillation and condensation is that the distillation is a separation technique whereas the condensation is a process of changing the phase of matter.
The key difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation is that adaptation refers to the actions taken to reduce the negative consequences of changes in the climate whereas mitigation refers to efforts to limit the emission of greenhouse gases.
To begin with, the basis of the difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation is that, the climate change adaptation refers to the actions taken to lower the negative consequences of changes in the climate whereas the climate change mitigation refers to efforts to limit the emission of greenhouse gases.
Based on the above, an important difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation is that the climate change adaptation includes anticipating the negative consequences of climate change and taking appropriate measures to prevent or reduce the damage they can cause. In contrast, climate change mitigation involves reducing the emission of greenhouse gases and removing greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.
Looking at the strategies, building flood barriers, developing drought-resistant crops, using scarce water resources more efficiently, and developing effective early warning systems are some measures we use in climate change adaptation. Using clean energy sources, using new technologies, changing people’s behaviour or making older technology more energy-efficient are some strategies for climate change mitigation.
To summarize the difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation, adaptation and mitigation are two responses to climate change. And, the basic difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation is that the climate change adaptation refers to the actions taken to lower the negative consequences of changes in the climate whereas the climate change mitigation refers to efforts to limit the emission of greenhouse gases.
Two main causes were identified as the immediate causes for climate change; Anthropogenic climate change and Natural climate change. Anthropogenic climate change is the climate change that results from human activities such as burning of fossil fuels, excessive use of greenhouse gases and deforestation. Natural climate change refers to the climate change that occurs due to natural phenomena such as volcanic eruptions, solar output or changes in the earth’s orbits.
The key difference between Anthropogenic and Natural climate change is the causative agent. In Anthropogenic climate change, the human activities lead to changes in climate whereas in Natural climate change, natural phenomena leads to the change in climate.
The climate change that results from human activities such as burning of fossil fuels, excessive use of greenhouse gases and deforestation is known as Anthropogenic Climate Change.	The climate change that occurs due to natural phenomena such as volcanic eruptions, solar output or changes in the earth’s orbits is known as Natural Climate Change.
Anthropogenic climate change can be controlled by creating awareness and reducing the emission of pollutants.	Natural climate change cannot be controlled
Climate change is an increasing environmental issue at present which results in drastic effects such as natural disasters and health impacts. It is now identified that human-based activities known as anthropogenic activities are the main reasons for this climate change. Natural phenomena also lead to climatic change such as volcanic eruptions, ocean circulation, solar activity, earth motions, etc. By both means; anthropogenic or natural, the climate of the earth changes with time, producing negative effects on the living organisms.
Delhi and Mumbai are two important stoppages for any tourist who comes to India. While Delhi is the capital city, Mumbai is the financial capital of India, also housing Bollywood, India’s answer to Hollywood.
The two cities can’t be more dissimilar in culture as well as weather. While Mumbai is a city that is composed of seven islands lying along the coast of Arabian Sea, Delhi is a land locked city lying in the northern part of the country closer to Himalayas. This difference in location has great significance as far as climates of Delhi and Mumbai are concerned. Let us find out the differences.
For one, whether it is January or August, someone from north of India has to remain prepared to face a sultry weather in Mumbai. This is because of the proximity of the ocean from the city of Mumbai. High humidity levels means uncomfortable weather that feels hotter than the temperatures of 28 degrees Celsius would suggest. The weather is like this all year long, and there is no respite from humidity even in December and January, which are supposed to be cooler months in Mumbai. However, someone from Delhi coming to Mumbai in December would feel as if he is facing summers, as winters in Delhi can be pretty harsh with temperatures down to 4-5 degrees Celsius.
While the climate of Mumbai is tropical, the one in Delhi is sub tropical with influences of monsoons making the climate rich and varied.
While the climate in Mumbai is dry for 7 months with 5 months that are wet, July August are the months of monsoon rains in Delhi with strong summer months of May and June, while having harsh winters in December and January.
Climate change and global warming are two different phenomena that are causing drastic changes on the earth. Climate change is change in the climate of a region, which occurs over a long period. Global warming is the rise in average temperature of the Earth. Global warming is leading to climate change in some cases, as increased temperatures result in more rainfall and modify lowest and highest temperatures in a particular region. Human interference is the common factor, which is accelerating both, as air pollution is contributing to both global warming and climate change. These two are two different phenomena, but are interlinked, as one affects the other.
As climate and weather are meteorological words which are related to one another, but not interchangeable, knowing the difference between climate and weather becomes important. Weather is the day-to-day state of the atmosphere, whereas, the climate is constructed by the average weather conditions at a particular place for a long period.
Weather is defined as the state of the atmosphere at a specific place at a particular time, described in terms of variable conditions such as temperature, humidity, wind velocity, precipitation, and barometric pressure. Climate depends upon weather. If weather changes, automatically climate also changes. It is determined by the location of the region on earth such as latitude, position relative to oceans or continents, altitude, movements of Earth’s wind belts, topography, etc.
Climate is the pattern of weather that the region experiences over a long period. Weather changes from time to time or even moment to moment.
Climate is the weather of a locality averaged over some period (usually 30 years). Weather varies on short term basis.
Weather is a combination of wind, temperature, cloudiness, precipitation and visibility. The factors affecting climate are mountain ranges, attitudes, large water bodies.
Weather is dynamic and always changing whereas climatic is constant for a long time may be years or decades.
Humid is a type of climate whereas rain is a type of weather.
For example, if it is cool on a particular day then, we are talking about weather but if it is cool over a season for several months then, we are talking about climate.
Climate is what you expect according to averages of atmospheric conditions collected over several years at a place. Weather is what you get on a particular day.
Weather is the exact temperature at a given amount. Climate is the overall temperature at a given area.
Weather changes but climate is not changeable. Climate is recorded over a period whereas weather is the current condition.
In short, climate is the statistical average weather information in a region, whereas weather is the day-to- day state of the atmosphere at a specific place and time. Climate is a study of climatology and weather is a study of meteorology.
The key difference between methane and carbon dioxide, the two major greenhouse gases, is that methane enters the atmosphere during the production and transport of coal, natural gas and oil whereas carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere mainly through the burning of fossil fuels.
Methane is a major greenhouse gas, which has the chemical formula CH4 while carbon dioxide is another major greenhouse gas that has the chemical formula CO2.
The key difference between methane and carbon dioxide is that the methane enters the atmosphere during the production and transport of coal, natural gas and oil whereas carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere mainly through burning fossil fuels.
Moreover, a significant difference between methane and carbon dioxide is that, compared to carbon dioxide, the lifespan of methane in the atmosphere is much shorter.
Methane and carbon dioxide are the major greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. In summary, the key difference between methane and carbon dioxide is that the methane enters the atmosphere during the production and transport of coal, natural gas and oil whereas carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere mainly through burning fossil fuels.
In other words, we usually associate cool with refreshing and comfortable lower temperature and cold with uncomfortably lower temperature.
Cool and cold are two adjectives with similar meanings – both refer to a low temperature. However, as mentioned above, there is a slight difference between cool and cold in terms of meaning and usage. In addition, word cool is also used as an informal word meaning attractive or excellent whereas the word cold can also refer to a personality trait.
Cool describes a moderate cold temperature whereas cold describes a temperature that is uncomfortably low for humans. The key difference between cool and cold is that cold refers to a lower temperature than cool.
In other words, cool is somewhere between warm and cold whereas cold is somewhere between cool and freezing.
Another significant difference between cool and cold is that cool usually describes a refreshing and comfortable lower temperature while cold refers to an uncomfortably lower temperature.
The key difference between naphtha and gasoline is that the naphtha describes the more volatile forms of petroleum whereas gasoline is a petroleum-derived fuel.
There are two forms of naphtha as light and heavy naphtha. Each fraction contains different hydrocarbon molecules having different numbers of carbon atoms per each molecule. Gasoline, on the other hand, is a fuel that contains hydrocarbons containing around 4 to 12 carbon atoms per each.
Gasoline has effects on the environment. Ex: local effects such as smog and global effects such as climate changes. Moreover, this compound can enter the atmosphere in its uncombusted form as well; both as a liquid or as vapour. This occurs via leakage during handling, transportation, delivery, from storage tanks and from spills. This affects the environment because gasoline contains carcinogenic compounds such as benzene.
Naphtha is a term that we use to name more volatile forms of petroleum. There are two forms as light and heavy naphtha. Light naphtha contains hydrocarbon compounds having 6 or fewer carbon atoms while heavy naphtha contains hydrocarbons having 6 or more carbon atoms. Whereas, Gasoline is a petroleum-derived fuel. It contains hydrocarbons with carbon atoms between 4 to 12 per molecule. This is the key difference between naphtha and gasoline.
Furthermore, naphtha is useful as a solvent, as a fuel, and for other industrial purposes but, the use of gasoline is as a fuel for spark-ignited internal combustion engines. The below infographic presents the difference between naphtha and gasoline in tabular form.
The key difference between same and similar is that the word same means being identical, without having any difference whereas the word similar means having a resemblance in some aspect, without being identical.
The two words same and similar have very similar meanings. Many people even use these words interchangeably. However, it is important to note that there is a distinct difference between same and similar. Same indicates that two things are identical, but similar implies that there is a similarity between the two things compared.
The main difference between same and similar is that the word same implies that two things are identical whereas the word similar doesn’t imply that two things are identical.
Same indicates that there is no difference, but similar only indicates that there is a resemblance in appearance, character or quantity.
Moreover, same functions as both an adjective and a pronoun whereas similar only functions as an adjective.
There is a distinct difference between same and similar even though most people use these two words interchangeably. Same implies that two things are identical; however, similar doesn’t imply that two things are identical, it merely implies that it has some resemblance.
The key difference between humidity and relative humidity is that humidity is the amount of water vapor present in the air at a given moment whereas relative humidity is the ratio between the amount of water vapor present in the air and the amount of water vapor required to saturate the air.
Humidity is the amount of water vapor present in the air at a given moment. Relative humidity is the percentage ratio between the amount of water vapor present in the air and the amount of water vapor required to saturate the air.
Humidity is measured by gram per cubic meter (g/m3) while relative humidity is measured as a ratio and it is presented as a percentage.
The mathematical expression to obtain the value of humidity is by dividing the mass of water vapor in air by the volume of air considered at a given temperature. Similarly, to obtain the value of relative humidity we have to divide the partial pressure of water vapor and the equilibrium vapor pressure of water vapor at a given temperature.
The terms CO2 and CO2e seem similar but are different terms by their definitions. However, they are related to each other because they are the major greenhouse gas components. CO2 is carbon dioxide gas. It is a colourless gas. The density of this gas is higher than the dry air. It is one of the major gaseous compounds that is released due to human activities. The term CO2e stands for carbon dioxide equivalents. It is a measure of how much global warming is given by a particular greenhouse gas as a function of the amount or concentration of carbon dioxide gas.
The key difference between CO2 and CO2e is that CO2 is a gaseous compound whereas CO2e is a measure of the greenhouse effect.
CO2 is carbon dioxide gas.	The term CO2e stands for carbon dioxide equivalents.
CO2 is a colourless gas that can be found naturally in the atmosphere in trace amounts.	CO2e is a measure of the greenhouse effect.
CO2 is a greenhouse gas; It can absorb IR radiation coming from the sun and re-emit in different directions that cause global warming.	CO2e is used to measure how much impact is on global warming by a particular greenhouse gas as a function of the amount or concentration of carbon dioxide gas emitted. This is also used to express the carbon footprint.
Carbon dioxide is a major greenhouse gas that has an impact second only to water vapour. The impact of other greenhouse gases is measured quantitatively using carbon dioxide as a reference. It is given as carbon dioxide equivalents of CO2e.
The difference between CO2 and CO2e is that CO2 is a gaseous compound whereas CO2e is a measure of the greenhouse effect.
Meteorology and Climatology are two terms that seem to have the same meaning but strictly speaking there is difference between the two terms. Climatology deals with the scientific study of climate. Meteorology is the study of the processes and phenomena of the atmosphere especially as a means of forecasting the weather.
Sometimes Meteorology also refers to the atmospheric character of a region. It is the department of climatology that works on the issue of global warming. On the other hand the department of meteorology works with the primary duty of providing information regarding the trends happening in the atmosphere. This is done keeping in mind weather forecast.
Climatology also makes a thorough study and observation of the man-made climate or global warming. It takes the sea surface temperatures which are called as SSTs. It can forward information regarding the advent of hurricane seasons and cyclones. The department of meteorology on the other hand forwards information regarding the temperatures of different areas. It can give information regarding the highest and lowest temperatures of any given area.
Climatology studies the changing trends in the climate scientifically. It needs the help of eminent scientists or climatologists who work in unison in making a scientific study of the changing climate. Climatology also gives information regarding long-term climate based on the scientific study. On the other hand meteorology can give a short-term report of the weather based on the phenomena of atmosphere. The aspect of atmospheric behavior is taken into account to a great extent in the case of meteorology. Otherwise both climatology and meteorology works on the same lines. There is not much of a difference in the manner in which they function with the aid of the scientific instruments.
Humidity and dew point are two concepts discussed in the vapor systems. Humidity is a very common concept that holds a great significance in our daily lives. Dew point is a concept that is tightly connected with the humidity. A proper understanding in humidity and dew point is required in fields such as meteorology, physics, chemistry and many other fields. A good understanding in these concepts may also be useful in our daily lives too. In this article, we are going to discuss what humidity and dew point are, their definitions, the applications of humidity and dew point, their similarities, and finally the difference between humidity and dew point.
Humidity refers to the amount of the water vapor inside a system. The dew point refers to the temperature where that amount of water vapor is the saturated vapor.
Humidity is measured in either kg/m3 or as a percentage. The dew point is measured in temperature units such as Kelvin, Celsius degrees or Fahrenheit degrees.
Showers result from cumuliform clouds that are a combination of cumulus and cumulonimbus clouds. • On the other hand, it is stratiform clouds that are responsible for rains.
The key difference between inductive and deductive reasoning is that the inductive reasoning proceeds from specific premises to a general conclusion while deductive reasoning proceeds from general premises to a specific conclusion.
Reasoning is the process through which you reach a logical conclusion after thinking about all the relevant facts. There are two types of reasoning; they are inductive reasoning and deductive reasoning. The former refers to the process of deriving generalizations from specific observations while the latter refers to the process of drawing specific conclusions from general statements/observations. A premise in this aspect, is a proposition supporting or helping to support a conclusion.
Inductive reasoning is a logical process where multiple premises are combined to obtain a specific conclusion. Deductive reasoning, on the other hand, is the opposite of inductive reasoning. It involves drawing a conclusion based on the concordance of multiple premises.
Most importantly, inductive reasoning moves from specific premises to a general conclusion while deductive reasoning moves from general premises to a specific conclusion. This is the main difference between inductive and deductive reasoning.
Moreover, in deductive reasoning, one can prove that conclusions are valid if the premises are true. However, in inductive reasoning, conclusions may be incorrect even if the argument is strong and the premises are true.
Inductive and deductive reasoning are two contrasting methods of reasoning. Inductive reasoning refers to the logical process of deriving generalizations from specific observations while deductive reasoning refers to the logical process of drawing specific conclusions from general statements/observations. This is the main difference between inductive and deductive reasoning.
The key difference between alternately and alternatively is that alternately means one after another or consecutively whereas alternatively means another choice or possibility.
Alternately means one after another or consecutively whereas alternatively means another choice or possibility.
Moreover, alternately is directly related to the word alternate whereas alternatively is directly related to the word alternative.
Alternately and alternatively are two adverbs that stem from the Latin word alternatus. However, there is a distinct difference between alternately and alternatively; alternately means one after another or consecutively whereas alternatively means another choice or possibility.
The key difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism is that prescriptivism is an approach that attempts to impose rules of correct usage on the users of a language whereas descriptivism is an approach that analyses the actual language used by speakers without focusing on aspects such as language rules or proper usage.
Prescriptivism and descriptivism are two contrasting approaches to language usage and grammar. Prescriptivism explains how language should be used whereas descriptivism describes how language is actually used.
Prescriptivism is an approach to language that is concerned with establishing norms of correct and incorrect usage and formulating rules based on these norms. In contrast, descriptivism is a nonjudgmental approach to language that is concerned with actual language usage by its speakers and writers.
Thus, the key difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism is that the former analyses how language should be used whereas the latter focuses on how language is actually used.
More importantly, prescriptivism focuses on correct usage whereas descriptivism does not focus on what is right and wrong. This is also a significant difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism.
Moreover, prescriptivism is used mainly in fields like education and publishing whereas descriptivism is used in academic linguistics.
Also, a further difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism is that the prescriptivism focuses on a standard variety of language whereas descriptivism studies both standard and nonstandard varieties of language.
Prescriptivism and descriptivism are two contrasting approaches to language usage and grammar. In summarizing the key difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism, prescriptivism is an approach that attempts to impose rules of correct usage on the users of a language whereas descriptivism is an approach that analyses the actual language used by speakers without focusing on aspects such as language rules or proper usage.
The key difference between metaethics and normative ethics is that the metaethics focuses on what is morality whereas the normative ethics focuses on what is moral.
Metaethics and normative ethics are two branches of ethics the philosophers usually study. Metaethics is the branch of ethics that focuses on the basic nature of ethics, its status, foundations, properties, etc. Normative ethics, on the other hand, focuses on what is morally right and wrong and analyses the moral behavior of people.
Metaethics is the study of the origin and meaning of ethical concepts while normative ethics is the study of ethical action, typically focusing on what is morally right and wrong.
Thus, the key difference between metaethics and normative ethics is that metaethics focuses on what is morality whereas normative ethics focuses on what is moral.
Moreover, metaethics has a connection to philosophy as it analyses fundamental ethical concepts whereas normative ethics is more practical as it applies to basic human behavior. Therefore, we can consider this as another difference between metaethics and normative ethics.
In brief, metaethics and normative ethics are the two major branches of ethics. Metaethics is the study of the origin and meaning of ethical concepts while normative ethics is the study of ethical action, typically focusing on what is morally right and wrong. Thus, this is the key difference between metaethics and normative ethics.
