y problem of Bitcoin. The idea is to reduce the size of the Bitcoin transaction by removing the signature information from the Blockchain without affecting the transaction ID which allows for greater transaction volumes. Bit
he Blockchain without affecting the transaction ID which allows for greater transaction volumes. Bitcoin Cash, on the other hand, does not support SegWit. Although, Bitcoin Cash is fast emerging as a global peer-to-peer electronic payment system designed specifically to promote faster transaction processing times and lo
d lower fees, Bitcoin has a much larger and distributed network and more infrastructure behind it which accounts for better security and stability on the long run. Additionally, Bitcoin is more profitable to mine than Bitcoin Cash. Plus Bitcoin excels in strength of hashing power which accounts for greater network stability. 
payments. Segregated Witness, or SegWit, is a scaling solution protocol designed to improve on the method of handling Bitcoin transactions. The idea of SegWit was presented by the Bitcoin developer Peter Wuille in the late 2015 aimed to change the way information is stored in Blockchain in order to solve the scalability problem of Bitcoin. The idea is to reduce the size of the Bitcoin transaction by removing the signature information from the Blockchain without affecting the transaction ID which allows for greater transaction volumes. Bitcoin Cash, o
In the equalist approach, everyone starts from the same level, and everyone is considered in the same way, without prejudice or bias; and In the equalist perspective, there is no “other” as everyone is equal and there are no categorizations. Conversely, feminists often see men as “the other,” although it is worth noting that there are various degrees of feminism, with some activists taking a more radical approach and others maintaining a moderate perspective.
Obama’s administration started in the throes of the recession period. Thus, one of his biggest priorities during the initial years of his term was to address the financial crisis which began in 2007. On the other hand, the economy has already largely recovered during Trump’s administration which is evidenced by statistics on economic growth and decreased unemployment rates.
Trump’s policies on tax cuts are generally viewed to favor citizens with higher incomes while those of Obama were meant to lessen income inequality by implementing higher taxes to those with equally bigger revenues. 
Federal Revenue Collections Forecast (2018-2025) for Trump vs Obama Economy The Obama baseline “CBO January 2017” forecast started at 3,600 which steadily increased to around 4,700 billion. As for Trump’s “2018 forecast”, it only started at around 3,350 billion which steadily increased to around 4, 625 billion. 
 Trump is generally perceived to favor businesses as reflected from his tax policies which leaned towards favoring high-revenue companies and individuals. Also, small-scale businesses are presently having very high hopes. Moreover, the current president is known to have much background in the corporate world. On the contrary, Obama is mostly viewed as anti-business which is also apparent from his policies on moderately increasing the taxes of those with higher income to fund his health-care program. 
Around 3.6 million jobs were created during Trump’s governance. Interestingly, survey shows that the unemployment rates for Latinos, African-Americans, and women are currently increasing at around 0.3 percent. However, these rates hardly increased during the Obama administration.
Economic growth decreased by about 0.5 percent in the final quarter of the previous administration as evidenced by the 2.3 percent growth in the second quarter of 2016 to only 1.8 percent in the last quarter. On the other hand, the present administration is charting an average economic growth of 2.9 percent and it is projected to increase at the end of 2018.
Trump has been known to initiate trade wars with several companies such as the Trans-Pacific partnership and with several countries like China and Mexico. On the contrary, such aggressive approach was not associated with Obama’s leadership.
The FY 2018 deficit under Trump’s watch had an estimated 60-percent-increase as compared to the projection of the CBO in 2017. Contrariwise, that of Obama’s decreased by 58 percent but the national debt increased by 88 percent. 
In computer architecture, a stack is a special region of the computer’s memory explicitly allotted for automatic variables. In programming, automatic variable is a local variable meaning the scope of the variable is local to the block in which it is declared. Memory is allocated automatically to these variables upon entry to the block and memory is freed upon exit. Heap, on the other hand, is the portion of computer’s memory used for dynamic memory allocations meaning blocks of memory are allocated and de-allocated in a random fashion.
Memory is allocated before the program is executed, generally at the compile time and the data structure used is called stack. Heap, on the other hand, is used for dynamic memory allocation meaning memory is allocated manually at the runtime during the execution of a program.
Programs request memory, usually for adding a node to the data structure and returns if not needed. A stack is managed and optimized by the CPU and the data is accessed in a last-in-first-out (LIFO) order.
Programs request memory, usually for adding a node to the data structure and returns if not needed. A stack is managed and optimized by the CPU and the data is accessed in a last-in-first-out (LIFO) order. LIFO refers to the method of data storage in memory stacks in which the most recent block of memory is the first to be freed and vice-versa. This makes for efficient memory management. Elements of the heap, on the contrary, are independent of each other and data can be accessed arbitrarily meaning a memory block can be allocated and freed at any time irrespective of their order.
Unlike in stack, memory is allocated as the program runs in heap which makes it a little slower to access the variables stored here. As there is no specific order in reserving blocks, memory blocks can be allocated and free at any time. 
Really, when it comes to deciding which word to use to talk about events at a meeting, it depends on timing. Just remember that agendas come before a meeting actually happens, like a plan, and minutes come after a meeting has occurred, like a summary. In this way the words, ‘agenda’ and ‘minutes’ can be used properly in Business English.
An ‘agenda’ refers to what is planned to discuss during a meeting. An agenda has a list of topics or subjects that will be covered. It serves as a plan or an outline what will happen. Therefore, an agenda is made before a meeting occurs. For example: Our manager sent out the agenda for tomorrow’s meeting so we knew what to expect. Other words that can be used are ‘program’, ‘schedule’ or ‘docket’, although ‘docket’ is usually used to refer to a list of legal cases that are going to be tried in court. However when referring to some type of meeting or gathering of people to discuss business, ‘agenda’ is the commonly used word. ‘Agenda’ is also commonly used in everyday English to refer to any time of plan. For example: What’s on the agenda for you to do today? The word, ‘minutes’ means a summary of proceedings or happenings as recorded in brief notes. When used in the context of a meeting, it is the official record of what happened, what was said, or what was decided at a meeting. So, minutes can only be recorded after a meeting has occurred. Many times a business meeting or other official meeting will start out with a secretary reading the minutes of the previous meeting to remind participants of that meeting or the minutes will be distributed following the meeting for reference purposes. For example: Bob’s secretary e-mails us the minutes from the staff meeting just in case we missed something
Wi-Fi is primarily a local area networking technology that uses radio waves to provide high-speed internet access to mobile devices enabled with Wi-Fi. It not only allows mobile devices such as smartphones, laptops, and tablets to connect to the internet but also allows them to communicate with each other wirelessly. Cellular is a networking technology typically associated with a mobile telephone system that uses short-range radio stations to facilitate mobile device communication over areas comprised of cells and transceivers. Cellular means there is a cellular plan attached to the device which uses cellular signal to connect to the internet.
Wi-Fi is a critical element and a crucial wireless networking technology based on the IEEE 802.11 standards. It is the Wi-Fi Alliance’s name for a wireless standard, or protocol, used for wireless communication. The Wi-Fi Alliance is a not-for-profit organization that certifies the interoperability of wireless devices to promote wireless technologies. It means any Wi-Fi enabled device can seamless communicate with another Wi-Fi enabled device wirelessly. Cellular refers to a mobile network which is distributed over a wide area commonly referred to as cells which are linked to one base station which in turn facilitates wireless connection via a mobile phone.
Wi-Fi enabled means if there is a wireless signal, the device can use the Wi-Fi standard to broadcast and receive information. It means anyone can work almost anywhere by using a mobile Wi-Fi device to connect to the internet without wires on-the-go. Wi-Fi is the name given to the wireless devices that are certified to use the 802.11 standard for communication. The main objective of a cellular communication network is to provide high-capacity coverage over a wide area and to provide a cost-effective solution for the networks in terms of coverage, capacity and quality. Mobile technology is the technology used for cellular communication.
Wi-Fi is perfect for data-intensive use such as online movies, YouTube, video conferencing, downloading music and videos, etc. Generally, Wi-Fi has no limit on how much data you can use in a day or a month. Cellular networks, on the other hand, use a proprietary frequency and a dedicated cellular operator and the services are chargeable based on weekly or monthly plans. Cellular data plans usually have daily or monthly cap on the data consumption limit. 
One of the primary difference between the two terms is their definition. Security refers to the protection of individuals, organizations, and properties against external threats that are likely to cause harm. It is clear that security is generally focused on ensuring that external factors do not cause trouble or unwelcome situation to the organization, individuals, and the properties within the premises. On the other hand, safety is the feeling of being protected from the factors that causes harm. It is also important to highlight that an individual who controls the risk causing factors has the feeling of being safe.
The second difference is that the feeling of being safe is an emotional aspect while security has to do with physical aspect. An individual feels safe when he or she is embraced by the loved ones which means that his or her emotional safety has been taken care of. Similarly, young children have the sense of being safe when they are close to their mother or father because he or she provides for both emotional and physical aspect. On the other hand, the aspect of security comes with physical aspects like tall walls that are protecting an individual from external threats. In addition, an individual has the sense of security if he or she has a physical weapon like gun that can be used to deal with external threats.
It is important to highlight that security is mostly an external affair while safety is an internal aspect. People looking for security ensure that they are highly protected against external factors that are likely to harm them. On the other hand, an individual within the organization might cause the essence of lacking safety or a party might make himself or herself not to feel safe. For example, security analyst and the forces mandated with ensuring security secure the perimeter of the organization, assets, or even an individual hence shielding against any external threats. However, they are not concerned with the internal aspects.
The other notable difference between security and safety is that security is the protection against deliberate threats while safety is the aspect of being secure against unintended threats. People and properties are usually protected against deliberate threats that are caused by criminals who have the intention to sabotage the operations of the company, steal resources of the organization, or harm an individual.
The other notable difference between security and safety is that security is the protection against deliberate threats while safety is the aspect of being secure against unintended threats. People and properties are usually protected against deliberate threats that are caused by criminals who have the intention to sabotage the operations of the company, steal resources of the organization, or harm an individual. This means that security is geared towards the protection against criminal activities that are perpetuated by criminals. On the other hand, the safety of a person is mostly installed so that a person can be protected against unintended accidents. For example, individuals are required to wear safety clothes in an organization that deals with chemicals so that they can be protected against the accidents.
An advertisement is the use of multimedia methods to promote activities, services or products by use of different avenues, with an aim of persuading potential consumers. On the other hand, propaganda is the act of influencing people by changing their attitudes and perceptions regarding the way they view certain products, services and even beliefs.
While advertisements aim at attracting public attention to a certain service or product and change consumer preference, propaganda aims at distorting facts and basing them on biased opinions hence is misleading to the target group.
The end result of advertising is a change of preference hence a purchase. On the other hand, the end result of propaganda is a show of superiority while making the other products seem inferior.
It also changes people’s mentality in regard to political, race, religious and lifestyle choices
While advertisements are used in the consumer market to promote new products, propaganda is not only used in the consumer market but also influences political, drugs, racism, sexuality, lifestyle and health choices. 
While advertising applies techniques such as dramatization, impact, description, imaging, frequency and positioning, propaganda applies techniques such as emotional manipulation, inaccuracies, exaggerations and generalization. 
Bronchitis is inflammation of the bronchi and trachea while bronchiolitis is infection and inflammation of the lower respiratory tract.
Bronchitis can affect people of all ages from infants to the elderly. Bronchiolitis only affects infants who are younger than two years of age.
Coughing, wheezing and difficulty breathing is a symptom of bronchitis. Coughing, wheezing, fast rate of breathing, difficulty breathing, cyanosis, and vomiting are symptoms seen in bronchiolitis.
Bronchitis is diagnosed by physical exam and by the use of chest X-rays to exclude other possible conditions. Bronchiolitis is diagnosed by physical exam, pulse oximetry, chest X-rays and RSV antigen tests.
Acute bronchitis can be caused by RSV, coronavirus, parainfluenza virus, influenza type A, and influenza type B virus. Chronic bronchitis can be caused by smoking cigarettes.
Acute bronchitis can be caused by RSV, coronavirus, parainfluenza virus, influenza type A, and influenza type B virus. Chronic bronchitis can be caused by smoking cigarettes. Bronchiolitis can be caused by RSV, rhinovirus, and parainfluenza virus type 3. A risk factor for chronic bronchitis is smoking or having COPD.
A risk factor for acute bronchitis is having an upper respiratory tract infection. A risk factor for bronchiolitis is being premature, a male infant, being born to a mother who smokes, and living in crowded conditions.
Bronchitis can be treated by the use of anti-inflammatory and pain medications and beta2-antagonists (such as albuterol), that are inhaled. Bronchiolitis is treated with fluids and oxygen therapy. 
E-cigs or electronic cigarettes, in its basic form are simply a combination of rechargeable lithium battery and disposable e-liquid cartridges. Electronic cigarettes are considered one of the best alternatives to traditional cigarette smoking and often referred to as personal vaporizers. 
Electronic cigarettes are considered one of the best alternatives to traditional cigarette smoking and often referred to as personal vaporizers. They are designed to imitate the look and feel of a real cigarette and even emulate the operation. Vaping, on the other hand, is quite similar to the act of smoking except vapor products are a little larger than electronic cigarettes.
Vaping banks on vaporizers to get you enjoy the pleasures the smoking without the effects. An electronic cigarette is a battery-powered device designed to emit vapors that can be inhaled afterwards.
An electronic cigarette is a battery-powered device designed to emit vapors that can be inhaled afterwards. The battery is attached to a heating element called an atomizer and a cartridge that holds the nicotine and other liquid and flavorings. In most e-cigarettes, the atomizer and the cartridge are combined into one device called a cartomizer. The battery then powers the atomizer to vaporize the liquid and the contents of the liquid create the ultimate emission.
Electronic cigarettes use pre-filled cartridges so they do not accommodate a wide variety of e-juice flavors and manipulating the device to add more flavors is a little tricky. They mostly use menthol, tobacco, and mint to imitate a real smoking experience. Advanced vaporizers are the newest addition to the conventional e-cigarettes that bring you a wide assortment of vape flavors including tobacco, menthol, fruits, desserts, beverages, etc. They can mix and match e-juices to create personalized vape e-cigarettes tailored for their tastes.
Efficiency and effectiveness are both commonly used management terms. Yet, while they sound similar and start with the same letters, they both mean different things. Efficiency refers to doing things in a right manner. Scientifically, it is defined as the output to input ratio and focuses on getting the maximum output with minimum resources. Effectiveness, on the other hand, refers to doing the right things. It constantly measures if the actual output meets the desired output.
Since efficiency is all about focusing on the process, importance is given to the ‘means’ of doing things whereas effectiveness focuses on achieving the ‘end’ goal.
Efficiency is concerned with the present state or the ‘status quo’. Thinking about the future and adding or eliminating any resources might disturb the current state of efficiency. Effectiveness, on the other hand, believes in meeting the end goal and therefore takes into consideration any variables that may change in the future.
In order to be efficient time and again, discipline and rigor is required. This can build inflexibility into the system. Effectiveness, on the other hand, keeps the long term strategy in mind and is thus more adaptable to the changing environment.
Since efficiency is about doing things right, it demands documentation and repetition of the same steps. Doing the same thing again and again in the same manner will certainly discourage innovation. On the other hand, effectiveness encourages innovation as it demands people to think, the different ways they can meet the desired goal.
Efficiency will look at avoiding mistakes or errors whereas effectiveness is about gaining success.
In the earlier days of mass production, efficiency was the most important performance indicator for any organization. However, with consumers facing an increasing number of choices, effectiveness of an organization is always questioned.
.Efficiency means doing the things right whereas Effectiveness is about doing the right things.
Efficiency focuses on the process or ‘means’ whereas Effectiveness focuses on the end.
Efficiency is restricted to the present state whereas effectiveness involves thinking long term.
Organizations have to be both effective and efficient in order to be successful.
The key difference between fusion and vaporization is that fusion is the conversion of a solid into a liquid, whereas vaporization is the conversion of a liquid into its vapor. 
The term fusion has different definitions in different fields, but in physical chemistry, we use it to describe the process of melting. That is; fusion is the conversion of a solid phase into its liquid phase. On the other hand, conversion of a liquid into its solid is known as freezing or solidification. If the liquid phase of a substance converts into the gaseous phase, then we call it vaporization.
Fusion is another term for the process of melting. Vaporization is the process of formation of vapor from a liquid, which can happen in one of the two ways: evaporation and boiling.
 The key difference between fusion and vaporization is that fusion is the conversion of a solid into a liquid, whereas vaporization is the conversion of a liquid into its vapor.
When considering the change in enthalpy, we call the change in enthalpy during the fusion process as the heat of fusion while the change in enthalpy during vaporization is the heat of vaporization.
The key difference between fusion and vaporization is that fusion is the conversion of a solid into a liquid, whereas vaporization is the conversion of a liquid into its vapor.
The key difference between distillation and condensation is that the distillation is a separation technique whereas the condensation is a process of changing the phase of matter. 
Distillation is a common technique in industries that we can use to separate components in a liquid mixture. The technique includes selective boiling followed by condensation. On the other hand, condensation is the process of changing the phase of matter from gas phase to liquid phase. 
Distillation is a technique that we can use to separate components in a liquid mixture via selective boiling and condensation while condensation is the process of changing the gas phase into liquid phase.
Therefore, the key difference between distillation and condensation is that distillation is a separation technique whereas condensation is a process of changing the phase of matter.
A further difference between distillation and condensation is that the distillation uses the differences in boiling points of components in the liquid mixture while the condensation occurs due to cooling or compression of a vapour.
Moreover, there is a difference between distillation and condensation based on applications too. That is; the applications of distillation include the production of distilled beverages, desalination, separation of crude oil into components, etc. Whereas, the applications of condensation include using it as a component of distillation, to generate water in large quantities, water desalination, air conditioning, etc.
Distillation is very important in different industries. Mainly, it is an important process in crude oil refining. On the other hand, condensation is also an important process, but we use it mainly regarding the condensation of water vapour.
However, condensation is an essential component in distillation too. In summary, the key difference between distillation and condensation is that the distillation is a separation technique whereas the condensation is a process of changing the phase of matter.
The key difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation is that adaptation refers to the actions taken to reduce the negative consequences of changes in the climate whereas mitigation refers to efforts to limit the emission of greenhouse gases.
To begin with, the basis of the difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation is that, the climate change adaptation refers to the actions taken to lower the negative consequences of changes in the climate whereas the climate change mitigation refers to efforts to limit the emission of greenhouse gases.
Based on the above, an important difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation is that the climate change adaptation includes anticipating the negative consequences of climate change and taking appropriate measures to prevent or reduce the damage they can cause. In contrast, climate change mitigation involves reducing the emission of greenhouse gases and removing greenhouse gases from the atmosphere.
Looking at the strategies, building flood barriers, developing drought-resistant crops, using scarce water resources more efficiently, and developing effective early warning systems are some measures we use in climate change adaptation. Using clean energy sources, using new technologies, changing people’s behaviour or making older technology more energy-efficient are some strategies for climate change mitigation.
To summarize the difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation, adaptation and mitigation are two responses to climate change. And, the basic difference between climate change adaptation and mitigation is that the climate change adaptation refers to the actions taken to lower the negative consequences of changes in the climate whereas the climate change mitigation refers to efforts to limit the emission of greenhouse gases.
Two main causes were identified as the immediate causes for climate change; Anthropogenic climate change and Natural climate change. Anthropogenic climate change is the climate change that results from human activities such as burning of fossil fuels, excessive use of greenhouse gases and deforestation. Natural climate change refers to the climate change that occurs due to natural phenomena such as volcanic eruptions, solar output or changes in the earth’s orbits.
The key difference between Anthropogenic and Natural climate change is the causative agent. In Anthropogenic climate change, the human activities lead to changes in climate whereas in Natural climate change, natural phenomena leads to the change in climate.
The climate change that results from human activities such as burning of fossil fuels, excessive use of greenhouse gases and deforestation is known as Anthropogenic Climate Change.	The climate change that occurs due to natural phenomena such as volcanic eruptions, solar output or changes in the earth’s orbits is known as Natural Climate Change.
Anthropogenic climate change can be controlled by creating awareness and reducing the emission of pollutants.	Natural climate change cannot be controlled
Climate change is an increasing environmental issue at present which results in drastic effects such as natural disasters and health impacts. It is now identified that human-based activities known as anthropogenic activities are the main reasons for this climate change. Natural phenomena also lead to climatic change such as volcanic eruptions, ocean circulation, solar activity, earth motions, etc. By both means; anthropogenic or natural, the climate of the earth changes with time, producing negative effects on the living organisms.
Delhi and Mumbai are two important stoppages for any tourist who comes to India. While Delhi is the capital city, Mumbai is the financial capital of India, also housing Bollywood, India’s answer to Hollywood. 
The two cities can’t be more dissimilar in culture as well as weather. While Mumbai is a city that is composed of seven islands lying along the coast of Arabian Sea, Delhi is a land locked city lying in the northern part of the country closer to Himalayas. This difference in location has great significance as far as climates of Delhi and Mumbai are concerned. Let us find out the differences.
For one, whether it is January or August, someone from north of India has to remain prepared to face a sultry weather in Mumbai. This is because of the proximity of the ocean from the city of Mumbai. High humidity levels means uncomfortable weather that feels hotter than the temperatures of 28 degrees Celsius would suggest. The weather is like this all year long, and there is no respite from humidity even in December and January, which are supposed to be cooler months in Mumbai. However, someone from Delhi coming to Mumbai in December would feel as if he is facing summers, as winters in Delhi can be pretty harsh with temperatures down to 4-5 degrees Celsius.
While the climate of Mumbai is tropical, the one in Delhi is sub tropical with influences of monsoons making the climate rich and varied.
While the climate in Mumbai is dry for 7 months with 5 months that are wet, July August are the months of monsoon rains in Delhi with strong summer months of May and June, while having harsh winters in December and January.
Climate change and global warming are two different phenomena that are causing drastic changes on the earth. Climate change is change in the climate of a region, which occurs over a long period. Global warming is the rise in average temperature of the Earth. Global warming is leading to climate change in some cases, as increased temperatures result in more rainfall and modify lowest and highest temperatures in a particular region. Human interference is the common factor, which is accelerating both, as air pollution is contributing to both global warming and climate change. These two are two different phenomena, but are interlinked, as one affects the other.
As climate and weather are meteorological words which are related to one another, but not interchangeable, knowing the difference between climate and weather becomes important. Weather is the day-to-day state of the atmosphere, whereas, the climate is constructed by the average weather conditions at a particular place for a long period.
Weather is defined as the state of the atmosphere at a specific place at a particular time, described in terms of variable conditions such as temperature, humidity, wind velocity, precipitation, and barometric pressure. Climate depends upon weather. If weather changes, automatically climate also changes. It is determined by the location of the region on earth such as latitude, position relative to oceans or continents, altitude, movements of Earth’s wind belts, topography, etc.
Climate is the pattern of weather that the region experiences over a long period. Weather changes from time to time or even moment to moment.
Climate is the weather of a locality averaged over some period (usually 30 years). Weather varies on short term basis.
Weather is a combination of wind, temperature, cloudiness, precipitation and visibility. The factors affecting climate are mountain ranges, attitudes, large water bodies. 
Weather is dynamic and always changing whereas climatic is constant for a long time may be years or decades. 
Humid is a type of climate whereas rain is a type of weather. 
For example, if it is cool on a particular day then, we are talking about weather but if it is cool over a season for several months then, we are talking about climate.
Climate is what you expect according to averages of atmospheric conditions collected over several years at a place. Weather is what you get on a particular day.
Weather is the exact temperature at a given amount. Climate is the overall temperature at a given area.
Weather changes but climate is not changeable. Climate is recorded over a period whereas weather is the current condition. 
In short, climate is the statistical average weather information in a region, whereas weather is the day-to- day state of the atmosphere at a specific place and time. Climate is a study of climatology and weather is a study of meteorology.
The key difference between methane and carbon dioxide, the two major greenhouse gases, is that methane enters the atmosphere during the production and transport of coal, natural gas and oil whereas carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere mainly through the burning of fossil fuels. 
Methane is a major greenhouse gas, which has the chemical formula CH4 while carbon dioxide is another major greenhouse gas that has the chemical formula CO2.
The key difference between methane and carbon dioxide is that the methane enters the atmosphere during the production and transport of coal, natural gas and oil whereas carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere mainly through burning fossil fuels.
Moreover, a significant difference between methane and carbon dioxide is that, compared to carbon dioxide, the lifespan of methane in the atmosphere is much shorter.
Methane and carbon dioxide are the major greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. In summary, the key difference between methane and carbon dioxide is that the methane enters the atmosphere during the production and transport of coal, natural gas and oil whereas carbon dioxide enters the atmosphere mainly through burning fossil fuels. 
In other words, we usually associate cool with refreshing and comfortable lower temperature and cold with uncomfortably lower temperature. 
Cool and cold are two adjectives with similar meanings – both refer to a low temperature. However, as mentioned above, there is a slight difference between cool and cold in terms of meaning and usage. In addition, word cool is also used as an informal word meaning attractive or excellent whereas the word cold can also refer to a personality trait.
Cool describes a moderate cold temperature whereas cold describes a temperature that is uncomfortably low for humans. The key difference between cool and cold is that cold refers to a lower temperature than cool.
In other words, cool is somewhere between warm and cold whereas cold is somewhere between cool and freezing.
Another significant difference between cool and cold is that cool usually describes a refreshing and comfortable lower temperature while cold refers to an uncomfortably lower temperature.
The key difference between naphtha and gasoline is that the naphtha describes the more volatile forms of petroleum whereas gasoline is a petroleum-derived fuel.
There are two forms of naphtha as light and heavy naphtha. Each fraction contains different hydrocarbon molecules having different numbers of carbon atoms per each molecule. Gasoline, on the other hand, is a fuel that contains hydrocarbons containing around 4 to 12 carbon atoms per each. 
Gasoline has effects on the environment. Ex: local effects such as smog and global effects such as climate changes. Moreover, this compound can enter the atmosphere in its uncombusted form as well; both as a liquid or as vapour. This occurs via leakage during handling, transportation, delivery, from storage tanks and from spills. This affects the environment because gasoline contains carcinogenic compounds such as benzene.
Naphtha is a term that we use to name more volatile forms of petroleum. There are two forms as light and heavy naphtha. Light naphtha contains hydrocarbon compounds having 6 or fewer carbon atoms while heavy naphtha contains hydrocarbons having 6 or more carbon atoms. Whereas, Gasoline is a petroleum-derived fuel. It contains hydrocarbons with carbon atoms between 4 to 12 per molecule. This is the key difference between naphtha and gasoline.
Furthermore, naphtha is useful as a solvent, as a fuel, and for other industrial purposes but, the use of gasoline is as a fuel for spark-ignited internal combustion engines. The below infographic presents the difference between naphtha and gasoline in tabular form.
The key difference between same and similar is that the word same means being identical, without having any difference whereas the word similar means having a resemblance in some aspect, without being identical. 
The two words same and similar have very similar meanings. Many people even use these words interchangeably. However, it is important to note that there is a distinct difference between same and similar. Same indicates that two things are identical, but similar implies that there is a similarity between the two things compared.
The main difference between same and similar is that the word same implies that two things are identical whereas the word similar doesn’t imply that two things are identical.
Same indicates that there is no difference, but similar only indicates that there is a resemblance in appearance, character or quantity.
Moreover, same functions as both an adjective and a pronoun whereas similar only functions as an adjective. 
There is a distinct difference between same and similar even though most people use these two words interchangeably. Same implies that two things are identical; however, similar doesn’t imply that two things are identical, it merely implies that it has some resemblance.
The key difference between humidity and relative humidity is that humidity is the amount of water vapor present in the air at a given moment whereas relative humidity is the ratio between the amount of water vapor present in the air and the amount of water vapor required to saturate the air. 
Humidity is the amount of water vapor present in the air at a given moment. Relative humidity is the percentage ratio between the amount of water vapor present in the air and the amount of water vapor required to saturate the air.
Humidity is measured by gram per cubic meter (g/m3) while relative humidity is measured as a ratio and it is presented as a percentage.
The mathematical expression to obtain the value of humidity is by dividing the mass of water vapor in air by the volume of air considered at a given temperature. Similarly, to obtain the value of relative humidity we have to divide the partial pressure of water vapor and the equilibrium vapor pressure of water vapor at a given temperature.
The terms CO2 and CO2e seem similar but are different terms by their definitions. However, they are related to each other because they are the major greenhouse gas components. CO2 is carbon dioxide gas. It is a colourless gas. The density of this gas is higher than the dry air. It is one of the major gaseous compounds that is released due to human activities. The term CO2e stands for carbon dioxide equivalents. It is a measure of how much global warming is given by a particular greenhouse gas as a function of the amount or concentration of carbon dioxide gas. 
The key difference between CO2 and CO2e is that CO2 is a gaseous compound whereas CO2e is a measure of the greenhouse effect. 
CO2 is carbon dioxide gas.	The term CO2e stands for carbon dioxide equivalents.
CO2 is a colourless gas that can be found naturally in the atmosphere in trace amounts.	CO2e is a measure of the greenhouse effect.
CO2 is a greenhouse gas; It can absorb IR radiation coming from the sun and re-emit in different directions that cause global warming.	CO2e is used to measure how much impact is on global warming by a particular greenhouse gas as a function of the amount or concentration of carbon dioxide gas emitted. This is also used to express the carbon footprint.
Carbon dioxide is a major greenhouse gas that has an impact second only to water vapour. The impact of other greenhouse gases is measured quantitatively using carbon dioxide as a reference. It is given as carbon dioxide equivalents of CO2e.
The difference between CO2 and CO2e is that CO2 is a gaseous compound whereas CO2e is a measure of the greenhouse effect.
Meteorology and Climatology are two terms that seem to have the same meaning but strictly speaking there is difference between the two terms. Climatology deals with the scientific study of climate. Meteorology is the study of the processes and phenomena of the atmosphere especially as a means of forecasting the weather. 
Sometimes Meteorology also refers to the atmospheric character of a region. It is the department of climatology that works on the issue of global warming. On the other hand the department of meteorology works with the primary duty of providing information regarding the trends happening in the atmosphere. This is done keeping in mind weather forecast.
Climatology also makes a thorough study and observation of the man-made climate or global warming. It takes the sea surface temperatures which are called as SSTs. It can forward information regarding the advent of hurricane seasons and cyclones. The department of meteorology on the other hand forwards information regarding the temperatures of different areas. It can give information regarding the highest and lowest temperatures of any given area.
Climatology studies the changing trends in the climate scientifically. It needs the help of eminent scientists or climatologists who work in unison in making a scientific study of the changing climate. Climatology also gives information regarding long-term climate based on the scientific study. On the other hand meteorology can give a short-term report of the weather based on the phenomena of atmosphere. The aspect of atmospheric behavior is taken into account to a great extent in the case of meteorology. Otherwise both climatology and meteorology works on the same lines. There is not much of a difference in the manner in which they function with the aid of the scientific instruments.
Humidity and dew point are two concepts discussed in the vapor systems. Humidity is a very common concept that holds a great significance in our daily lives. Dew point is a concept that is tightly connected with the humidity. A proper understanding in humidity and dew point is required in fields such as meteorology, physics, chemistry and many other fields. A good understanding in these concepts may also be useful in our daily lives too. In this article, we are going to discuss what humidity and dew point are, their definitions, the applications of humidity and dew point, their similarities, and finally the difference between humidity and dew point.
Humidity refers to the amount of the water vapor inside a system. The dew point refers to the temperature where that amount of water vapor is the saturated vapor.
Humidity is measured in either kg/m3 or as a percentage. The dew point is measured in temperature units such as Kelvin, Celsius degrees or Fahrenheit degrees.
Showers result from cumuliform clouds that are a combination of cumulus and cumulonimbus clouds. • On the other hand, it is stratiform clouds that are responsible for rains.
The key difference between inductive and deductive reasoning is that the inductive reasoning proceeds from specific premises to a general conclusion while deductive reasoning proceeds from general premises to a specific conclusion. 
Reasoning is the process through which you reach a logical conclusion after thinking about all the relevant facts. There are two types of reasoning; they are inductive reasoning and deductive reasoning. The former refers to the process of deriving generalizations from specific observations while the latter refers to the process of drawing specific conclusions from general statements/observations. A premise in this aspect, is a proposition supporting or helping to support a conclusion.
Inductive reasoning is a logical process where multiple premises are combined to obtain a specific conclusion. Deductive reasoning, on the other hand, is the opposite of inductive reasoning. It involves drawing a conclusion based on the concordance of multiple premises.
Most importantly, inductive reasoning moves from specific premises to a general conclusion while deductive reasoning moves from general premises to a specific conclusion. This is the main difference between inductive and deductive reasoning.
Moreover, in deductive reasoning, one can prove that conclusions are valid if the premises are true. However, in inductive reasoning, conclusions may be incorrect even if the argument is strong and the premises are true.
Inductive and deductive reasoning are two contrasting methods of reasoning. Inductive reasoning refers to the logical process of deriving generalizations from specific observations while deductive reasoning refers to the logical process of drawing specific conclusions from general statements/observations. This is the main difference between inductive and deductive reasoning.
The key difference between alternately and alternatively is that alternately means one after another or consecutively whereas alternatively means another choice or possibility. 
Alternately means one after another or consecutively whereas alternatively means another choice or possibility.
Moreover, alternately is directly related to the word alternate whereas alternatively is directly related to the word alternative.
Alternately and alternatively are two adverbs that stem from the Latin word alternatus. However, there is a distinct difference between alternately and alternatively; alternately means one after another or consecutively whereas alternatively means another choice or possibility.
The key difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism is that prescriptivism is an approach that attempts to impose rules of correct usage on the users of a language whereas descriptivism is an approach that analyses the actual language used by speakers without focusing on aspects such as language rules or proper usage.
Prescriptivism and descriptivism are two contrasting approaches to language usage and grammar. Prescriptivism explains how language should be used whereas descriptivism describes how language is actually used.
Prescriptivism is an approach to language that is concerned with establishing norms of correct and incorrect usage and formulating rules based on these norms. In contrast, descriptivism is a nonjudgmental approach to language that is concerned with actual language usage by its speakers and writers.
Thus, the key difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism is that the former analyses how language should be used whereas the latter focuses on how language is actually used.
More importantly, prescriptivism focuses on correct usage whereas descriptivism does not focus on what is right and wrong. This is also a significant difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism.
Moreover, prescriptivism is used mainly in fields like education and publishing whereas descriptivism is used in academic linguistics.
Also, a further difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism is that the prescriptivism focuses on a standard variety of language whereas descriptivism studies both standard and nonstandard varieties of language.
Prescriptivism and descriptivism are two contrasting approaches to language usage and grammar. In summarizing the key difference between prescriptivism and descriptivism, prescriptivism is an approach that attempts to impose rules of correct usage on the users of a language whereas descriptivism is an approach that analyses the actual language used by speakers without focusing on aspects such as language rules or proper usage.
The key difference between metaethics and normative ethics is that the metaethics focuses on what is morality whereas the normative ethics focuses on what is moral. 
Metaethics and normative ethics are two branches of ethics the philosophers usually study. Metaethics is the branch of ethics that focuses on the basic nature of ethics, its status, foundations, properties, etc. Normative ethics, on the other hand, focuses on what is morally right and wrong and analyses the moral behavior of people.
Metaethics is the study of the origin and meaning of ethical concepts while normative ethics is the study of ethical action, typically focusing on what is morally right and wrong. 
Thus, the key difference between metaethics and normative ethics is that metaethics focuses on what is morality whereas normative ethics focuses on what is moral.
Moreover, metaethics has a connection to philosophy as it analyses fundamental ethical concepts whereas normative ethics is more practical as it applies to basic human behavior. Therefore, we can consider this as another difference between metaethics and normative ethics.
In brief, metaethics and normative ethics are the two major branches of ethics. Metaethics is the study of the origin and meaning of ethical concepts while normative ethics is the study of ethical action, typically focusing on what is morally right and wrong. Thus, this is the key difference between metaethics and normative ethics.
 Asks or offers are done by sellers while bids are made by buyers. 
Augmented reality has more potential to be reactive to the physical world than VR. Because AR is integrated into the user’s physical environment, any changes occurring live will also occur to the augmented reality layers. Augmented reality can react to the real world primarily through noting the user’s coordinates and changing its display accordingly; there’s potential for more reactions to be programmed into AR as the technology advances.
d do not put salt while boiling lentils as it may make them hard. The cooking time differs between the types of lentils. Beans cook for a long time if not pre-soaked. Soak beans for about 8 hours before cooking to lessen the 
s the influenza virus, or have cystic fibrosis or COPD. Smoking also increases the risk of bronchitis. Singers are at risk for laryngitis because they overuse their voices. People who smoke or are ill with a cough are also at risk of developing laryngitis. Pain medicine, anti-inflammatories and beta2-antagonists like albuterol are used to treat
Overall: 1. Lakes are shallower than the seas 2. Lakes are enclosed by a body of land. 3. With regard to the volume of water, lakes can be small, moderate to big in size whereas seas are often always a lot bigger in size. 4. Lakes can either be salt water or fresh water while seas are always salt water in nature.
